Dan Quayle is likely to be a ``man on the outside'' in George Bush's White House following a vice presidential candidacy that began in a furor but settled into obscurity, experts say.
Encumbered by his image as a political novice who needed a bevy of professional handlers to survive early campaign controversies, Quayle enters a Bush administration in which he has few intimates or allies.
``Dan Quayle is going to set the vice presidency back about a decade or more.
One thing that political scientists have been talking about is just how much the vice presidency has grown. ...
With Quayle, it's just going to retreat to the old days of politics and funerals,'' said Ryan Barilleaux, a professor of political science at Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, who studies the American presidency.
The president-elect told reporters Quayle would have access to the same papers, information and intelligence that is available to the president.
Both Bush and Mondale came to their vice presidential campaigns with substantial reputations and were able to place key staffers in important positions in the respective presidential campaigns, Barilleaux notes.
Dan Quayle has no friends in a Bush White House except George Bush,'' Barilleaux says.
``They're going to give him a lot of window dressing, a space council, drug task force, but he's going to be a man on the outside ...
But Eddie Mahe Jr., a GOP consultant who worked with the Bush campaign, says Bush is likely to give Quayle a more active role in the administration than he had in the campaign.
It's going to give him an enormous impetus to prove himself.
Both Barilleaux and Stephen Hess of the Brookings Institution see parallels in Quayle's vice presidency and those of Richard Nixon and Spiro Agnew.
``The natural response is to use him (Quayle) sparingly, as Nixon did with Agnew in 1968,''
After the controversies subsided, Quayle declared his independence from his Bush handlers, saying he would be his own man.
``Dan Quayle owes his political life to one man and one man alone,'' Mahe says.
