Here is a state-by-state summary of the latest drought developments:
Recent rain in central and south Alabama haven't helped cities' water supplies enough to lift surcharges and limits on outdoor watering.
Northern Alabama has missed most of the rain and the region's top crop, cotton, is in a critical situation, said John Trotman, state director of the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service.
Georgia's carpet industry may be forced to reduce production and lay off workers if the drought continues for an extended period, industry officials said.
``It is something you don't like to think about, but if you don't have water, you can't run your mills,'' said John A. Shaheen, vice chairman of World Carpets Inc. in Dalton.
The drought has inflicted serious damage to wildlife along the Illinois River, even though the water level has remained near normal.
Wayne Herndon, a biologist with the state Department of Conservation, said the drought, now nearly midway through its second summer, has damaged the river's backwater lakes, virtually eliminating a year's supply of the river's gamefish.
The mercury hit 100 degrees Friday at O'Hare International Airport, bettering the previous high for the day of 99 and establishing a second record by giving the city its fifth 100-degree or better temperature of the summer.
The Indiana Board of Health issued a heat warning as temperatures soared above 100 and humidity levels boosted the heat index to more than 110 degrees.
Burnette returned from Oregon, saying he had prospects for perhaps 10,000 tons of hay, badly needed by cattle producers.
The U.S. Forest Service has banned all machinery with internal combustion engines from the Upper Peninsula's Hiawatha National Forest after noon.
John McGregor of the state Department of Natural Resources has said that if the drought keeps up, the state may ban commercial logging.
With the ``heat index'' _ the summertime equivalent of the wind-chill factor _ forecasters said 102 degrees felt like 114.
``This is the kind of situation that is really bad for the sick and elderly, and especially the elderly,'' said Greg Spoden, assistant state climatologist.
The reduction could affect Fargo's supply of water, according to Ron Hendrickson, city water plant superintendent.
