Thousands of coastal residents from Mexico to Louisiana fled to higher ground Thursday as fierce Hurricane Gilbert sent the first of its storms against Texas after thrashing the Yucatan Peninsula.
``This is a killer storm,'' said Gordon Guthrie, director of the Florida Division of Emergency of Management.
``I feel sorry for anybody wherever this hits.''
The death toll from the storm's onslaught through the Caribbean islands and the Yucatan was at least 47, and damage estimates reached $8 billion.
Jamaican Prime Minister Edward Seaga declared a one-month public emergency.
``If this motion continues, the center of the hurricane will cross the coast near the Texas-Mexico border on Friday evening,'' the weather service said.
``If a northwest turn should occur, the landfall could be further up the Texas coast.''
A hurricane watch remained in effect for the remainder of the Texas coast, from Port O'Connor north to Port Arthur near the Louisiana border.
Texas Gov. Bill Clements sent National Guard units to Alice, McAllen and Corpus Christi, the first such deployment for the hurricane, to assist in communications and rescue duties.
Clements also issued an emergency proclamation allowing local authorities to suspend laws ``to preserve the health, safety and welfare of the public,'' including such things as the direction of travel on highways.
Offshore oil workers left their rigs in the Gulf of Mexico.
We feel that we cannot wait until the morning to make that decision,'' Matthews said, adding that roadblocks would be set up at midnight on Interstate 45 to limit access to the island.
A Greyhound-Trailways bus spokesman said the company was doubling its schedule of outbound buses to accommodate those fleeing the storm.
Lorena Curry, who has lived in Brownsville since 1935, said she plans to ride out the storm.
Gilbert surged into the gulf after battering the Yucatan Peninsula in Mexico with 160 mph winds, forcing tens of thousands to flee.
In the coastal resort of South Padre Island, about 25 miles southeast of Brownsville, the mayor ordered its 1,000 residents to evacuate.
Tropical storm force winds, at least 39 mph, extended outward up to 250 miles to the north and 200 miles to the south of the center.
