Here is a state-by-state summary of drought developments Wednesday:
The Alabama National Guard is still hauling up to 25,000 gallons of water a day to 10 communities across the state despite recent rains.
At the height of the drought last month, the Guard was hauling water to 12 locations.
The Guard's water-hauling program has been in continuous operation since last July in west-central Alabama because of a low water table.
In an effort to help Georgia farmers locate hay, the state Department of Agriculture announced it will start compiling a list of sources.
State Treasurer Jerry Cosentino announced a program to provide drought-stricken farmers with access to commercial loans with below-market interest rates.
A group of Indiana farmers sued a New Jersey insurance company, saying the company acted in bad faith when it reneged on $2.5 million in drought insurance.
The lawsuit seeks an ``undeterminable'' amount of damages from Pio-Gard Agency of Ohio Inc. and Federal Insurance Co., a subsidiary of the Chubb Group Insurance Cos. of Warren, N.J.
Forecasters say Iowa's weather is returning to the hot, dry drought pattern which settled over the state for much of June.
The first emergency shipment of Oregon hay to help drought-stricken Kentucky farmers arrived, but logistical problems forced agriculture officials to delay its distribution until next week.
Nesbitt said Wednesday's 20-ton shipment, flown free from Portland, Ore., by United Parcel Service, will be sold to farmers on Monday.
It was the heaviest rainfall for the east-central part of the state since April 26, when the area got about a half-inch of rain.
Rainfall during the week ending Wednesday averaged 1 inch in some areas, with some extreme northern counties receiving greater amounts.
But the weather service said all Mississippi farm communities still had only 30 percent to 50 percent of normal moisture.
Nebraska's outlook for the corn crop is rosier than national predictions because 75 percent of the corn comes from irrigated acres and Nebraska has received more rain than some other states, he said.
