The bodies of 47 sailors killed in the gun explosion on the Iowa arrived in the United States on Thursday as the Navy tried to figure out what caused the battleship's turret to blow up.
None of the guns in the no. 2 turret had been fired before the explosion instantly killed the seamen, Navy officials said.
They discarded a theory that the blast had been sparked by red-hot debris left in the gun's breech by earlier rounds.
The Iowa was headed back to its home port at Norfolk, Va., while the bodies of the dead were flown to the military mortuary at Dover Air Force Base in Delaware and families of the battleship's 1,600 crewmen waited to learn whether their relatives were among the dead.
At the White House, chief of staff John Sununu announced President Bush will attend a memorial service Monday for the victims in Norfolk.
He said the president had heard of the service and told his staff ``if it could be fitted in, he wanted to be there ... wants to be a part.''
A spokesman for the Atlantic Fleet and the ship's former captain both said the explosion in the No. 2 turret could have been triggered by red-hot debris from earlier firings in the three-gun turret.
Mark Baker, chief of the Navy's Pentagon press office, said later that none of the turret's three guns had been fired.
Only four rounds of 22 scheduled to be fired as part of a training exercise had been fired, he said, and all had been from the No. 1 turret, forward of the one that exploded.
No eyewitnesses survived Wednesday's explosion behind one of the 16-inch guns on the Iowa, one of the largest warships ever.
Larry Seaquist, the ship's former captain _ said a possible explanation was that red-hot debris from a previous round ignited new charges.
Baker said no guns in the No. 2 turret had been fired and the order had just been given to the No. 2 turret crew to load and prepare the center gun when the explosion occurred.
``We have no eyewitnesses to what actually transpired,'' Defense Secretary Dick Cheney told reporters as he headed back to Washington from a NATO meeting in Brussels.
Navy Secretary William Ball attended a memorial service at the Delaware base, home of the armed services' largest mortuary.
The flag-draped coffins were carried off a plane by Navy honor guards.
