A violent storm that spun tornadoes across the South and Midwest blew north Thursday, knocking a cafeteria wall down on top of lunching schoolchildren in upstate New York.
The two-day toll was at least 27 dead and hundreds injured.
The cafeteria cave-in claimed the lives of seven children near Newburgh, N.Y., and deaths also were reported in New York City, New Jersey and Illinois.
Seventeen people died Wednesday in Huntsville, Ala., when a tornado packing 250 mph winds struck virtually without warning, laying waste to a wide swath of the city.
By far the worst damage was in Huntsville, where an estimated 1,000 people were left homeless and National Guardsmen stood watch against looting Thursday.
No bodies were believed left in the rubble, but portions of the city resembled a bombing target.
The National Weather Service said the tornado path had covered between eight and 10 miles and that its wind speeds were as high as 250 mph.
``It's like taking six to 10 city blocks and putting them in a blender and putting it on liquefy,'' said rescue worker Bob Caraway.
As the storm moved north on Thursday, it knocked over trees and ripped the the roofs off houses in West Virginia, injuring four members of one family, two seriously.
A truck driver died when his tractor-trailer overturned in high winds on a bridge connecting Elizabeth, N.J., and New York City.
A New York City woman died after being hit by a steel beam blown off a water tower.
In Wyckoff, N.J., high winds knocked a power line onto a gas line, sparking a fire that forced the evacuation of 20 homes, according to police.
The cafeteria collapse occurred at the East Coldenham Elementary School in Newburgh at about 12:30 p.m., when from 113 to 125 students in first, second and third grades were eating lunch, said Newburgh police Chief John Kulisek.
Tornadoes were reported Wednesday in Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Kentucky, Ohio and Indiana.
In Alabama, Gov. Guy Hunt said he would ask President Bush to declare Huntsville a disaster area to open the door to millions of dollars in federal relief.
``It was fast,'' said Lucy Lee Rusk, who moved to a Red Cross shelter after her apartment was battered by debris.
