Mourners sobbed and shook their heads in disbelief Sunday as tens of thousands viewed the flower-draped body of Andrei D. Sakharov in a huge outpouring of grief for the man described as his country's conscience.
Crimean Tatars and Jewish refuseniks _ two of the groups Sakharov helped _ joined rank-and-file Communists, teachers and engineers in filing past the body of the physicist, Nobel Peace Prize winner, human rights advocate and legislator.
Based on official sources, an estimated 45,000 people filed through, and the flow of mourners continued into the night.
A friend of the family, speaking on condition of anonymity, said he heard estimates that 70,000 mourners viewed the body before it was returned to Sakharov's apartment at midnight.
one elderly woman cried out as she saw Sakharov's body in an open coffin, sloping to the floor of the beige marble Youth Palace in central Moscow.
She apparently meant to apologize for not recognizing his contributions earlier.
Sakharov died Thursday alone in his study at the age of 68, apparently of a heart attack, ending a three-decade fight against the jailing of innocent people, for free emigration, for disarmament and other causes.
Sunday was the first of two days of memorial ceremonies, and the outpouring was remarkable for a man who was once ostracized and committed to nearly seven years in internal exile in the remote city of Gorky.
There were signs of grief throughout this snowy capital of 9 million people, as though a government leader had died.
Roald Z. Sagdeyev, a member of the official funeral commission, said about 3,000 people an hour were arriving initially, but the official news agency Tass said that rate doubled later, making for a total of 45,000 by nighttime.
Four pages were filled with pictures of him, condolence telegrams from exiled writer Alexander Solzhenitsyn and President Bush and a text of Sakharov's last public remarks, a speech he delivered hours before his death in which he said the Soviet hierarchy was ``leading the country to a catastrophe.''
The Communist Party daily Pravda published a poem by Yevgeny Yevtushenko that read in part:
A son and daughter from his first marriage and son and daughter of Bonner also attended, along with four grandchildren.
