An outpouring of sympathy from presidents to childhood neighbors followed the death of Lucille Ball, but many said the queen mother of comedy will live on through television reruns and her influence on comedy.
The daffy, redheaded comedian whose harebrained schemes drove her television family crazy and delighted viewers for four decades died Wednesday of a ruptured abdominal artery at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center.
She was 77 and died eight days after emergency heart surgery.
A private burial was planned, reportedly with no funeral services in accordance with Miss Ball's wishes.
``God has her now, and, thanks to television, we'll have her forever,'' said comedian and longtime friend Bob Hope.
Hospital switchboards were swamped with condolence calls and thousands of cards after Miss Ball's death, spokesman Ron Wise said.
Following her operation last week, her first words to her daughter, Lucie, were: ``Wouldn't you know _ this is the day I was going to get my hair done.''
``She responded as well as anyone could respond to that kind of surgery.''
He said she woke up early Wednesday complaining about a sudden pain in her back, and in a matter of seconds went into a full cardiac arrest that was caused by a ruptured aorta.
The show, one of the most popular in television history, was distinguished by Miss Ball's faultless timing, rubber-faced expressions, wide-mouthed wails and extravagant pratfalls.
Comedian Whoopi Goldberg said: ``Lucy was great because she represented every person.
Budd Friedman, owner of the Improvisation comedy clubs, said, ``The world of comedy has lost its first lady.
Actor Danny DeVito recalled getting a personal congratulation from Miss Ball in 1981 when he won an Emmy for the TV series ``Taxi.''
Admirers included President Bush, in Southern California at the time of Miss Ball's passing, and former President Reagan.
``Lucille Ball possessed the gift of laughter,'' Bush said.
Although Miss Ball hadn't visited her hometown of Jamestown, N.Y, since 1956 and had no family there, she had stayed in touch with friends.
Irene Rosseti, who now lives in Celoron, N.Y., said Miss Ball recently had sent her and her husband a letter on their 50th wedding anniversary.
Hospital spokesman Wise said that the family has asked that donations be sent to the Lucille Ball Foundation, in care of Irella-Manella, 1800 Ave.
