Three decades ago, a West German politician said German reunification was a ``sleeping lioness'' that would awake one day with a mighty roar.
Now, there is growing speculation the awakening may be at hand to create a giant political and economic machine that could dominate Europe.
``Reunification is coming closer, but I can't say whether it will take 10, 15 or 20 years,'' says West German conservative lawmaker Eduard Lintner.
The daily sight of thousands of refugees fleeing East German leader Erich Honecker's hard-line Communist rule for the capitalist West has revived international interest in the debate.
Once dismissed as a nostalgic daydream, the idea of German reunification has gotten a public nod from President Bush and something short of a categorical ``no'' from President Mikhail S. Gorbachev of the Soviet Union.
The West German constitution calls for a united Germany, but it has not been a paramount concern of the West Germans in the years since the ruins of Nazi Germany were divided into East and West at the end of World War II.
Full national reunification would completey rework the postwar European order mapped out by the conquering Allies.
It is a prospect that creates unease in Britain and France, and in Poland in the East bloc.
London's prestigious Sunday Times on Sept. 10 mapped out a possible scenario that includes massive troop reductions in Europe, Honecker's death and further Westernization of Poland and Hungary.
``Moscow unilaterally abolishes the Warsaw Pact after guarantees from Poland and Hungary they will not join other alliances,'' the Times' futuristic view continued.
Eva Kulesza, head of research for the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe at the French Institute of International Relations, says she believes that ``as far as public opinion there is new sort of mistrust toward Germany.
As talk grows in the West, the positions against reunification almost seem to harden in East Germany, as people leave the country in near-record numbers.
``The lioness will one day wake up, blink, snap her her tail and start to roar.''
