Rescuers crawled through collapsed homes and shops today looking for more victims of a tornado that carved a 3-mile stretch of destruction, killing 17 people, injuring 463 and leaving 1,000 homeless.
``It's like taking six to 10 city blocks and putting them in a blender and putting it on liquefy,'' said rescue worker Bob Caraway, whose specialty is cave rescues.
He was among those called out to help dig through rubble for survivors or the bodies of the dead.
The tornado was one of a series that touched down Wednesday in an arc spanning at least seven states from the Deep South to the Midwest.
The other tornadoes caused at least 19 injuries and far-flung property damage.
In Huntsville, teams with cranes and floodlights searched for the injured or dead, hampered by wind-whipped rain and temperatures that plummeted overnight from 73 degrees into the 30s.
His spokesman, Terry Abbott, said aerial surveys indicate the twister hopped along a 25-mile path, much of it straight through Huntsville.
By this afternoon, severe thunderstorms were crossing the Northeast.
The National Weather Service put out a tornado watch for parts of Maryland, Delaware, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York, all of Connecticut and Rhode Island, and parts of Massachusetts, Vermont and New Hampshire.
In Pennsylvania, the weather service said it received unconfirmed reports of a tornado that turned over a car and knocked down trees and power lines near Gettysburg.
A watch means a tornado is considered possible, while a warning means a tornado is believed to exist.
Huntsville Police Maj.
Most of the dead were in apartments, stores or cars.
Mayor Steve Hettinger estimated the number of homeless at 1,000 and said officials were preparing a request for federal disaster assistance.
A worker at a building owned by the Madison County Jaycees said 42 people were staying there early today, and described the mood of the survivors as ``shock, mostly, and disbelief.''
The tornado was Alabama's deadliest since a 1975 twister killed 22 people in Birmingham, said Danny Cooper, state emergency management director in Montgomery.
Kindergarteners were the only pupils left at the school by the time the twister hit.
