Lucille Ball, the daffy comedian whose harebrained schemes drove her television family crazy but delighted viewers for four decades, died Wednesday of a ruptured abdominal artery.
The actress, star of the hugely popular ``I Love Lucy'' and related situation comedies seen in more than 80 countries, had undergone major heart surgery April 18.
``There was nothing to indicate this would happen,'' Wise said.
``The heart itself apparently was not involved in Miss Ball's sudden death.''
In the 6{-hour surgery at Cedars-Sinai, doctors replaced her aorta and aortic valve.
Although the replaced portion of Miss Ball's aorta did not apparently fail, the entire artery was in poor condition when she was operated upon, said Dr. Robert Kass.
Kass, who performed the operation, said at the time the tearing in Miss Ball's aorta ``progressed all the way down into her abdomen.''
``Lucille Ball possessed the gift of laughter.
She was Lucy and she was loved.''
``It's a shock after working very closely with her and loving her for over 35 years,'' said Miss Ball's frequent sidekick, Gale Gordon, who was in Edmonton, Alberta.
While in the hospital, the comedian was deluged with thousands of cards, letters, flowers and phone calls from fans as far away as Australia and Europe.
Miss Ball and her late former husband, Desi Arnaz, starred in ``I Love Lucy'' from 1951 to 1957 and have been seen since in widely syndicated reruns.
The late Vivian Vance and William Frawley played their neighbors, Fred and Ethel Mertz.
She and Arnaz established one of TV's first major independent studios.
Young Lucy, a brunette, was dazzled by the stage, but her ambitions were discouraged by an acting school _
Her ads for Chesterfield cigarettes caught Hollywood's eye, and in 1933 she went to California.
In 1951, when CBS decided to move her radio series, ``My Favorite Husband,'' to television, Miss Ball insisted that Arnaz be her co-star.
She was hospitalized for dehydration when it was over, but the movie was a minor critical and ratings success.
