Torrential thunderstorms sent a flash flood surging through a valley into this Ohio River town, killing at least 11 people, leaving 51 missing and scores of others homeless Friday, authorities said.
Raging floodwaters late Thursday swept homes off foundations and washed away cars.
About 200 people were reported evacuated in central Ohio.
``The valleys are choked with debris,'' Gov. Richard Celeste told reporters after flying over the hilly Appalachian region in eastern Ohio.
The governor declared a state of emergency, and dispatched about 50 National Guardsmen to the area.
Seventeen counties now have been declared disaster areas because of flooding or tornadoes since May 29.
One body was taken to Bellaire City Hospital, he said.
Earlier, Fire Chief Mark Badia had said 14 adults and two children were dead.
County Sheriff Tom McCort, who said he was running the recovery effort, said 51 people in Shadysville and Meade Township, where the two creeks run south of the village, were missing as of 8:45 p.m.
Vogt said two bodies were found in the Ohio River and one was found in a field next to the river after water receded.
Some of the bodies were taken to a funeral home that set up a temporary morgue in Shadyside, about 10 miles south of Wheeling, W.Va.
Anything that was still standing was covered with at least 6 feet of debris such as trees, appliances and furniture.
The National Weather Service issued no flood warning before the disaster, although it did issue a flood watch, said Al Wheeler, deputy meteorologist in the bureau's Cleveland office.
Weather service offices in Cleveland, Akron, Columbus and Pittsburgh showed the storm had diminished over eastern Ohio when it had actually intensified, Wheeler said.
There was no complete accounting of deaths, said Karen Bovek, a spokeswoman at a Shadyside Fire Department command center set up an a school.
``It's a pretty good mess, especially in the northern end of the county,'' said Clarence Weston, a dispatcher with the Marshall County Sheriff's Department in Moundsville, W.Va.
