Jurors in the McMartin Pre-School molestation case denounced the techniques of a child therapy center and a police department letter that inflamed parents and ignited the case.
Seven jurors who spoke with reporters in a joint news conference after acquitting Raymond Buckey and his mother, Peggy McMartin Buckey, on 52 molestation charges Thursday said they felt some children who testified may have been molested _ but not at the family-run McMartin Pre-School.
And they said some children may have merely repeated stories told them by their parents and interviewers at Children's Institute International.
The private child therapy center, which specializes in abused children, videotaped interviews with children from the McMartin school after reports of molestations surfaced.
Jurors saw the tapes in which interviewers used anatomically explicit puppets and leading questions to elicit descriptions of molestation from children.
Asked what led to acquittals, juror Brenda Williams focused on the taped interviews from the center jurors call CII.
``The CII interviews _ I could not accept them,'' Mrs. Williams said.
They gave me a lot of reasonable doubt,'' agreed juror Julie Peters, 47, a supermarket meat wrapper.
They never had a chance to tell their stories,'' said juror John Breese, 51, a medical technician and grandfather of five.
Equal criticism was aimed at a letter sent in 1983 by the Manhattan Beach Police Department to parents of McMartin school children.
The letter alerted parents to a claim of molestation at the school and to Buckey's arrest.
``The police letter should never have been sent,'' said juror Sally Cordova, 27, a supermarket checker.
They said a series of medical slides shown to them lacked impact because they weren't sure what they were seeing in the photos of children's genitals.
Some said they were unsure whether Buckey was a molester but were sure the prosecution had failed to prove its molestation allegations against him beyond a reasonable doubt.
``Even if you accept that the children were molested,'' said juror Mark Bassett, ``the evidence didn't establish that they were molested at the McMartin Pre-School.''
