Ruling party members said today that the government, fearing a U.S. air attack, was distributing automatic weapons to tens of thousands of supporters and preparing to evacuate the Iraqi capital.
A boycott of Iraqi oil forced Baghdad today to close one of two pipelines in Turkey that were pumping the bulk of Iraq's exported oil, Turkish officials said.
A British official said Iraqi troops rounded up American and British visitors in Kuwait and taking them to Iraq.
The Foreign Office spokesman said most were passengers from a British Airways flight stranded in Kuwait since the Iraqi invasion Thursday.
``There is no evidence that they are in any way in trouble,'' the official said.
Saudi Arabia was reported reinforcing its troops along the Kuwaiti border following concerns Iraq may try to invade it.
Pentagon sources said the USS Independence and its carrier battle group are now on station in the Arabian Sea, a position that would allow it to launch fighter planes into the Persian Gulf region.
_The new Kuwait government installed by Iraq hinted it might take hostages or seize property of nations that take punitive measures against Iraq.
_Iraqi President Saddam Hussein said the 100,000 soldiers who invaded Kuwait began to pull back Sunday.
_Oil prices jumped more than $3 a barrel on news Europe and Japan were joining the embargo of Iraqi oil.
In London, Kuwaitis arriving on a special plane said 700 Kuwaitis died.
Along with the United States, they bought more than half Iraq's exported oil, with most of it pumped through Turkey.
The new Iraqi-installed foreign minister of Kuwait, Lt. Col. Walid Sa'oud Mohammed Abdullah, warned against further sanctions in a statement broadcast Sunday by Iraqi radio.
``Countries that resort to punitive measures against the provisional free Kuwait government and fraternal Iraq should remember that they have interests and nationals in Kuwait,'' he said.
Iraqi soldiers invaded Kuwait after complaining that its violation of OPEC production quotas was driving down world crude prices, lowering Iraqi oil revenues.
An American technician at a secret Saudi Arabian base said the kingdom had sent 200 to 300 tanks toward its border with Kuwait.
U.S. officials said there was no indication Iraqi troops were preparing to invade Saudi Arabia.
