The Hubble Space Telescope was awakened from its self-induced sleep today but it was still without the use of its high-speed antennas, and its science instruments were on hold, unable to begin any observations.
``We are out of the `safe-mode' right now,'' said Steve Terry, a supervisor of the engineers controlling the telescope.
He said the telescope was running on a ``normal control-all mode,'' where its own computers and sensors guide where it is pointing.
Discovery's astronauts, meanwhile, packed their gear for a return to Earth Sunday, made some last-minute observations of Earth and talked with ground-based reporters about their flight.
Pilot Charles Bolden said he was especially upbeat about the widespread public awareness of the telescope, which is expected eventually to look back 14 billion light years
``It's hard to go somewhere and find someone who has never heard of the Hubble Space Telescope,'' said Bolden.
The telescope's big eye has remained open, but Hubble had been in a ``safe mode'' with all motion stopped because of earlier problems in linking the high-speed dish antennas with a relay satellite.
The antennas are the primary links for relaying scientific data to the ground.
Engineers are able to send commands to the telescope via its secondary antennas but the communications system is not useful for scientific data, which must be transmitted at a high rate of speed.
``We're backing up to a very deliberate and slow and careful approach to these problems,'' Olivier said Friday.
Landing is scheduled for 9:48 a.m. EDT Sunday at Edwards Air Force Base, Calif., but flight controllers were keeping a close watch on the weather.
``The song was selected in honor of Hubble Space Telescope, which is now open for business,'' said Mission Control commentator James Hartsfield.
The telescope, named for the late astronomer Edwin P. Hubble, will enable astronomers over its 15-year working lifetime to look back 14 billion years and possibly determine the age of the universe.
