Iraqi President Saddam Hussein seemed determined to solve his financial problems and fulfill territorial ambitions by dethroning the government of neighboring Kuwait.
The invasion, unprecedented in modern Arab history, reflected the brutality Saddam has used to crush all opposition at home since coming to power in 1979.
The sentence for criticizing Saddam is death, and the president considered Kuwait's oil overproduction and the subsequent fall in the price of oil a personal affront to Iraq.
``Iraqis will not forget the saying that cutting necks is better than cutting means of living.
He accused Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates of costing Iraq $14 billion in lost oil revenue by ignoring their quotas assigned by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.
He also accused Kuwait of stealing $2.4 billion by pumping oil from a disputed field that straddled their border, and demanded that Kuwait write off an estimated $15 billion it loaned Iraq during the Persian Gulf war.
Saddam was reported to be incensed that Kuwait was demanding repayment for the wartime loans.
Saddam said he fought the war to protect the Arabs from the fundamentalist revolution fomented by the late Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini in Persian, mainly Shiite Moslem Iran.
The war bills kept the government from delivering material benefits promised to the Iraqi people directly after the war.
But Kuwait's pledge two weeks ago to obey new OPEC quotas and Saddam's promise to Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak that he would not invade lulled the Arab world into the sense the crisis was over.
Homage to the cause of Arab unity has been paramount in Middle East politics since postwar independence from colonial powers.
The Iraqi government refused to recognize its independence in 1961 and threatened to attack then, but backed down when Britain landed troops in Kuwait.
It proved the decade-old Gulf Cooperation Council that groups Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Oman and Kuwait was toothless.
