TOMORROW evening, just before the Olympic closing ceremony, the last and one of the most prestigious events of the Games will be held.
It is also without doubt the most gruelling.
Run in high heat, high humidity, high pollution levels and over an extraordinary course, the Barcelona Olympic men's marathon will prove one of the most physically demanding ever run.
It is estimated that when the race begins in Mataro, a seaside town north of Barcelona, the temperature will be an already-uncomfortable 25`C. Towards the marathon's end, however, radiant heat thrown off by buildings could be subjecting the runners to a temperature of up to 30`C.
More debilitating still, relative humidity in Barcelona in August rises as high as 80 per cent.
But we do not need figures to convince us of the extraordinary difficulty of tomorrow's race.
Never in any event voluntarily entered into, sporting or otherwise, have I seen such signs of physical and mental distress.
The race was won by the Unified Team's Valentina Yegorova in 2 hours 32 minutes, a time considerably slower than that achieved by women on less demanding Olympic marathon courses in Los Angeles and Seoul.
Several competitors lay prone and gasping on the ground as water was poured over them; others stood hunched over, grasping their abdomens.
To put on the marathon in the late afternoon, rather than first thing in the morning (the normal practice), and then to make them run 4km up a hill is just criminal in my opinion,' said Brasher, a former Olympic gold medal athlete and noted sportswriter.
I spoke to Britain's Steve Brace, winner of the Paris marathon in 1989 and 1990, the Berlin marathon last year and a competitor in the Barcelona event.
The winner of the London marathon earns a tidy Dollars 50,000 and the New York, Boston and Japanese runs are all in the same prize-winning category.
Given the highly demanding nature of the course and their desire to preserve physical condition for races that do bring in money, he says, many runners will give less than their best effort.
