It is a sensational shortlist: a bestseller about love and hypnotism, a blockbuster about battles and brides in Ruritania, and a pornographic shocker about teenage sex and baby murder so explicit that only an obscure Newcastle publisher would risk printing it.
Out are the eminences gris of Victorian letters - novels by Thomas Hardy and Mrs Humphry Ward, who advised Gladstone and Roosevelt, didn't make the grade.
This week the shortlist for the hypothetical 1894 Booker Prize will be announced by six judges, including biographer Victoria Glendinning and broadcaster Melvyn Bragg.
George du Maurier's Trilby, Anthony Hope's The Prisoner of Zenda, George Moore's Esther Waters, Kipling's Jungle Book,
George Gissing's In the Year of Jubilee and RL Stevenson's The Ebb Tide.
The winner will be revealed on October 15 (four days after the 1994 Booker Prize ceremony) at the Cheltenham Festival of Literature.
Like today's Booker Prize, it is a publishing gimmick; Everyman, which is backing the spoof award, is a significant publisher of classic Victorian novels.
On the 1994 list Romesh Guneskera's Reef is about a Sri Lankan servant boy and his mysterious master, while Jill Paton Walsh's Knowledge of Angels re-enacts the wolf-child legend.
Both, for instance, have books about colonial exploitation - Stevenson's The Ebb Tide and Abdulrazak Gurnah's Paradise, which is set in the First World War in German East Africa.
It is now seen as Moore's best work, but in 1894 it had problems finding a publisher and the powerful circulating libraries refused to take it.
A century on, the relationship between fiction and sexual morality remains vexed.
This is the gap the Booker tries to bridge by giving high-level publicity to works which would not normally reach a mass audience.
Between 1861 and 1894, when the population of the UK was half that of today and the literate population smaller still, Mrs Henry Wood's East Lynne sold 400,000 copies.
All the 1894 Booker writers were popular names; they were also serious, skilful writers whose books can be reread with pleasure 100 years later.
Culturally, these writers and readers were certain of their place in the mainstream, and the novel was their political and intellectual forum.
The fantasy element of fiction, in which we identify with characters as if we know them, was answered in the 19th century by the novel; in the 20th century we have TV soaps.
In the Year of Jubilee and Esther Waters, for example, centre on the burning 1890s debate about marriage, feminism and the 'New Woman', yet both are also tearjerkers which everyone enjoyed.
