Though the historic McMartin Pre-School criminal trial finally has ended in acquittals, a host of civil lawsuits generated by the Manhattan Beach molestation case conceivably could keep the issue alive in the courts for decades, legal experts say.
A confusing array of civil actions await resolution.
These include a federal civil rights suit filed Friday by Peggy McMartin Buckey against her accusers and others; a lawsuit filed by former defendants against a television station and reporter and suits the pre-school owners have filed against their liability insurance carriers.
Also, Ray Buckey might file a federal suit similar to that of his mother, said his attorney, Scott Bernstein.
"I'm convinced this case will never end," Eli Gauna, who represents Babette Spitler, a former teacher at the school, said wearily.
"It will always be there, until everyone who was ever involved gets to old age or dies."
In the criminal case -- the longest and costliest criminal proceeding in U.S. history -- Ray Buckey, 31, and his mother Peggy McMartin Buckey, 63, were acquitted Thursday of 52 counts of molestation involving 11 youngsters who attended the family nursery school in Manhattan Beach.
A decision is expected next week over whether those charges will be refiled against Ray Buckey.
The criminal case began in March, 1984, when seven McMartin teachers were indicted by a county grand jury on 115 counts of molestation.
The indictment was superseded by a criminal complaint of 208 counts of molestation and conspiracy.
But those lawsuits later were withdrawn to prevent the children's psychiatric histories from being introduced as evidence in the criminal case.
Greg Mooney, an attorney who represented some of the plaintiffs, explained that during the criminal preliminary hearing, defense attorneys had sought psychiatric records of the alleged victims.
"The civil suits were withdrawn so they would not become an issue in the criminal case," Mooney said.
"Somewhere between a handful and a bushelful."
Under state law, children who allege abuse have until they are 19 years old to file.
In the so-called delayed-discovery theory, a statute of limitations does not take effect until the victim actually becomes aware of molestation, and some victims might suppress memories of such attacks for years.
"There is some sentiment that says, 'Let's just put this behind us.'
They think maybe since the criminal jury couldn't get the higher standard of proof, a civil jury would bring about a resolution."
Peggy Ann Buckey, Virginia McMartin, Spitler and Raidor are suing the television station, the reporter who broke the McMartin story and others.
