Incense burned and Buddhist monks in saffron-colored robes chanted prayers of mourning Friday as the immigrant families of children slain in this week's schoolyard massacre were joined by scores of other members of Stockton's Asian community in vigils of grief.
City officials readied the city's Civic Auditorium for a Monday memorial ceremony for the families and friends of a Vietnamese student and four Cambodian pupils gunned down in the playground at Cleveland Elementary School Tuesday by armed drifter Patrick Edward Purdy, who killed himself with a single pistol shot to the head.
A separate funeral for 6-year-old Thuy Tran, the Vietnamese student killed in the shooting spree, will be held today.
Vu-Duc Vuong, executive director of the city's Center for Southeast Asian Resettlement, said citizens throughout California will be asked to take part Monday in a five-minute period of silence starting at 11:45 a.m.
More than 100 people gathered at the Village Oak apartments, where the families of two victims, 8-year-old Ram Chun and 6-year-old Sokhim An, live.
But a similar vigil at the home of a third victim, Rathanan Or, 9, was marred by a bitter reunion between the dead boy's parents.
Ly said he was watching a news report about the massacre Tuesday morning in which five children and the gunman were killed when he spotted the picture of a 9-year-old victim he recognized as his lost son.
In a telephone call later that day, a Stockton official verified that "my son had been killed at school."
Now remarried with a 2-year-old son, Ly flew alone to Stockton on Thursday, where he was reunited with In Or, 36, Rathanan's mother and Ly's former wife.
Or said Friday that she had no idea Ly had survived, and she complained that Ly had not been in touch with her or her children since he arrived in the United States.
A spokesman for Van de Kamp said the attorney general will cooperate fully with the governor and provide him with whatever information he requests.
"The deaths of five children and the injury of 30 others, all victims of a wanton and senseless act by a person who had a criminal record, raises a number of questions," Deukmejian said in his letter to the attorney general.
