Ray Buckey and his mother, Peggy McMartin Buckey, were found not guilty Thursday of molesting children at the family-run McMartin Pre-School in Manhattan Beach, a verdict which brought to a close the longest and costliest criminal trial in history.
The jury reported it was deadlocked on 13 remaining counts, and a mistrial was declared on those allegations.
Ray Buckey, 31, left the courtroom without comment -- free on his own recognizance until a decision is reached on whether the district attorney will retry him on the 13 undecided counts.
But his 63-year-old mother and co-defendant reacted with anger.
"I've gone through hell
Most jurors said later that they believed the children who testified had been molested, but that the prosecution had failed to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the Buckeys were culpable.
"But it was not proven to me that he did it.
The Buckeys, who spent years in jail as the case progressed through the judicial system, had sat silently, staring straight ahead, as the jury filed into the room shortly before 10:30 a.m. and the gallery of reporters and spectators grew quiet in anticipation.
"All the verdicts are the same," said Los Angeles Superior Court Judge William Pounders, handing them to his court clerk.
Clerk Stan Ferrell listed the counts numerically and then, reading from the verdict form, delivered in a single, almost anti-climactic sentence the historic trial's close:
"I knew God would set my son and me free because we have done nothing," she said as she was driven away.
It was very difficult to find corroboration in this case."
Asked if the case was worth its cost in money, lives and stress, Pounders said he thinks society benefited from the case.
"People will be much more alert to the possibility of this type of offense taking place at preschool and at schools," Pounders said.
I can't believe this."
"We all know that we are telling the truth," said a 15-year-old boy who had testified.
We were molested."
I was beyond tears.
They also criticized the Manhattan Beach Police Department's decision, early in the investigation, to send out form letters to parents announcing an investigation had begun and soliciting information.
That was crucial."
Said jury foreman Luis Chang, an electrical engineer: "The key evidence that swayed me was the interview tapes.
"The system worked well for them," she said in reference to the Buckeys.
"Too much time and too much money has gone into this case.
This is insane.
Defense attorneys Dean Gits and Danny Davis were beaming after the verdict announcement.
Buckey's mother had been free on a smaller bail amount earlier after spending nearly two years in jail.
The McMartin case -- which included allegations not only of rape, sodomy, oral copulation, and other sex crimes, but also of pornographic photography sessions, "naked games," field trips away from the school for illicit purposes, animal mutilation, threats and satanic-like ritual and sacrifice -- began in the fall of 1983.
Robert Philibosian, running for reelection, and the media, which caught wind of the investigation, were pressing for action.
Hysteria grew.
Perhaps the most poignant moment came when an 8-year-old girl told in a wispy voice of having been raped, photographed, tied up and placed in a dark closet by her teachers five years earlier.
In the end, Bobb ordered all seven defendants to stand trial on 135 charges, telling each, "The court believes there is sufficient cause to believe you are guilty."
One child was allowed to testify by closed-circuit television, under a new state law passed especially for the McMartin case.
But a week later, in January, 1986, the new district attorney, Ira Reiner, who had inherited the case from Philibosian, dropped charges against five of the seven defendants, citing "incredibly weak evidence" and deciding to proceed only against Ray Buckey and his mother.
The scope of the trial was narrowed again when several parents decided not to allow their children to testify.
Their testimony was often raw and unsettling.
It claimed that their stories defied common sense and that the medical evidence was unreliable and perhaps fabricated.
These awful people.
THE JUDGE:
An intellectual who often uses expressions derived from his Air Force experience building nuclear missiles, Pounders' strengths are meticulous organization and an extensive knowledge of the law, which he augments with a 3-by-5 index card file system, as well as a new computer.
THE DEFENDANTS:
she both directed the Virginia McMartin Pre-School and taught there.
She has maintained that neither she nor any member of her staff engaged in improper conduct.
She is the only original prosecutor remaining on the McMartin case.
ROGER J. GUNSON, 50 -- Co-prosecutor.
A 20-year veteran of the district attorney's office and a graduate of UCLA Law School, the soft-spoken, unassuming Gunson most recently served as head deputy in the Sex Crimes and Child Abuse Division.
THE DEFENSE ATTORNEYS:
DEAN R. GITS, 45 --
A gentlemanly, cum laude graduate of the William Mitchell College of Law in St. Paul, Gits describes himself as "a simple country lawyer from Minnesota."
