The Senate panel weighing John Tower's nomination to be defense secretary has found a substantial discrepancy in Tower's descriptions of his business dealings with a British aircraft and weapons manufacturer, congressional sources said Friday.
Tower testified last week that he had represented British Aerospace Inc. only on civil aviation matters, not as a consultant on military systems.
But, in a divorce deposition, taken in June, 1987, Tower stated that he had given the company advice on "selling certain systems to the Defense Department."
In the deposition, Tower said he represented the firm on a range of military programs and was paid $8,000 a month.
Records show that the payments continued from June, 1986, until December, 1988.
Also, he served on the board of directors of the company, the U.S. subsidiary of British Aerospace PLC.
The discrepancy, sources said, has prompted concerns about the veracity and completeness of Tower's testimony before the Senate Armed Services Committee, the panel hearing testimony on his confirmation.
And it raises the question of whether Tower should have registered as a lobbyist for foreign interests under the Foreign Agents Registration Act, they said.
Lawmakers from both parties have said they are concerned that there would be a continuing appearance of conflict of interest hanging over Tower because of his employment by weapons firms, which brought him at least $760,000 in 2 1/2 years -- not including the more than $200,000 British Aerospace paid him.
The addition of the British firm to the list would add another -- and the first foreign-based firm -- whose interests could pose a potential conflict.
A lengthy FBI investigation into Tower's business dealings and his personal behavior has stalled a vote by the committee on his confirmation.
The FBI is looking into new charges about Tower's alleged drinking, womanizing and receipt of campaign contributions and has said that it cannot complete the inquiry for another 10 days.
Armed Services Committee Chairman Sam Nunn (D-Ga.) and other committee members are said to be troubled by these issues and have indicated that they may vote against Tower unless the apparent conflicts and questions are resolved.
Around the same time, he entered into lucrative consulting arrangements with major defense firms, including Rockwell International Inc., Textron Inc., LTV Corp. and Martin Marietta Corp.
-- Tower's doctor said Friday that he has no evidence to indicate that the former Texas senator suffered any medical symptoms of alcoholism.
