In its renewed investigation of defense secretary nominee John Tower, the FBI is checking allegations that Tower was recently involved in an episode of public drunkenness, sources said Friday -- allegations that call into question his insistence that he has no current drinking problem.
Tower testified in confirmation hearings earlier this week that his problems with alcohol are behind him.
But a senior member of the Armed Services Committee, who asked not to be identified, said Friday that the new allegation, if true, suggests that the former Texas senator's drinking problem "may be ongoing" and that his confirmation remains in doubt.
The charge received Wednesday by the committee was very specific, giving the date and place of the alleged incident, and was made by an informant who identified herself, a knowledgeable source said.
If the new charges should be verified by the FBI, Tower's nomination is doomed, an authoritative committee source said.
On Thursday, the Armed Services Committee had been set to approve the Tower nomination, but Chairman Sam Nunn (D-Ga.) abruptly canceled the vote because of the new charges, which he referred immediately to FBI Director William S. Sessions.
The bureau already had conducted an extensive background investigation of Tower, a 24-year Senate veteran who headed the Armed Services panel from 1981 to 1985.
When he nominated Tower, President Bush said he was "totally satisfied" with the FBI check.
Nunn said he did not expect the latest FBI inquiry to be completed until at least Tuesday.
"This is terribly cruel to a man who's just sort of hanging out there," said committee member Malcolm Wallop (R-Wyo.), a Tower supporter.
A senior White House staff member, who asked not to be identified, said Administration officials were getting impatient with the delays in Tower's confirmation.
Tower's personal conduct, however, became an issue in the hearings on Tuesday, when conservative critic Paul Weyrich charged that the former senator was morally unfit for the post because of a history of drinking and womanizing.
