When the doors swung open Wednesday at the first McDonald's restaurant in the Soviet Union, thousands of Muscovites poured in to sip "milk cocktails" and taste their first "Beeg Mak Gamburgers," picking them apart to marvel at the fixin's.
Some expressed wonder at the speedy service -- "only an hour in line" -- while others heralded the event as the first evidence that President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's economic reforms are finally filtering down to the average Muscovite.
Although cynics might complain of the steady homogenizing of world cultures, the arrival of the fast-food chain here -- 14 years after a Canadian McDonald's official broached the idea with Soviet officials at the 1976 Montreal Olympics -- was without doubt a major event.
Most customers seemed thrilled to be part of it, even though some of them gave the Big Mac sandwich a mixed review.
"But those strawberry milk cocktails, well. . . ," her husband put in, flashing a thumbs-up sign.
"It was very interesting, that gamburger," Zvetlana Generotova, 25, said, leaving with a large paper bag filled with take-out food, also a new concept here.
The world's largest McDonald's, with 27 cash registers and a seating capacity of 900, brings to Moscow not only hamburgers, french fries and shakes (called "milk cocktails" here), but also a living lesson in Western-style marketing.
They practiced cooking using yellow cardboard squares in place of cheese and different colored poker chips in place of onions, tomatoes and pickles.
For example, we had to teach our employees that when there were still crumbs on the counter, it needed to be wiped off again."
While most of the Soviet workers trained for a matter of days, the four Soviet managers of the restaurant spent nine months abroad learning their jobs.
On Wednesday, though, it stayed open an extra two hours and served a McDonald's record 30,000 meals.
Virtually every other foreign firm that has come into the Soviet Union in recent years accepts only hard currencies, meaning that it caters primarily to foreigners.
McDonald's invested $50 million in setting up the restaurant and a food processing plant in a Moscow suburb that turns out everything from meat patties to sesame-seed buns.
The joint venture agreement between McDonald's of Canada and the Moscow City Council calls for 20 restaurants, though there is no timetable or even a definite plan for when or where the second McDonald's will open.
