Lucille Ball, the leggy showgirl, model and B-grade movie queen whose pumpkin-colored hair and genius for comedy made her an icon of television's early years, died early today, a week after undergoing emergency heart surgery.
The high-spirited star of "I Love Lucy," a show that the nation took to its heart as no other and that continues in syndication around the world, died of a ruptured abdominal aorta at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, hospital spokesman Ronald Wise said.
Miss Ball, who had a heart attack and had throat surgery in 1988, underwent surgery at Cedars-Sinai on April 18 to replace her aorta and aortic valve and had been getting out of bed, eating and even walking around the room in recent days.
She had been asking about their white poodle, Tinker.
Wise said the rupture occurred in a portion of the aorta, the main heart artery, far from where the operation was performed.
Tributes were plentiful and immediate:
She was a great physical mime with all the instincts of a Chaplin."
William S. Paley, chairman of CBS Inc., said from New York: "Lucille Ball will always be the first lady of CBS.
As testament to their value as prime-time stars, Miss Ball and Arnaz signed an $8-million, no-cancellation, two-year contract with CBS in 1953 -- the largest in television history at the time and a figure scarcely any TV star can touch 36 years later.
Looking svelte for her years in a fashionable slit skirt, she seemed to be in good health and laughed freely throughout a brief routine with Hope.
But the show, Miss Ball's first series in 12 years, was canceled after less than two months when it drew spectacularly low ratings.
Her timing, wails and pratfalls had made the "I Love Lucy" show one of the most popular in television history.
Bridge clubs and bowling teams changed their meeting nights to watch Lucy Ricardo and Ethel Mertz come up with yet another harebrained scheme to drive their long-suffering husbands, Ricky and Fred, to desperation.
Miss Ball's real, on-screen pregnancy marked a milestone in television, and an estimated 44 million viewers -- more than watched the inauguration of President Dwight D. Eisenhower -- tuned in on Jan. 19, 1953, the night Lucy Ricardo delivered Little Ricky.
In 1940, her tresses now the fiery trademark red, Miss Ball met Arnaz, a rumba star.
It was filmed in advance before a live audience, employing three cameras instead of the traditional one used for motion pictures.
