Lucille Ball, the leggy showgirl, model and B-grade movie queen whose pumpkin hair and genius for comedy made her an icon of television, died early Wednesday, a week after undergoing emergency heart surgery.
Known simply as "Lucy" to four decades of smitten television fans, she had undergone surgery at Cedars-Sinai on April 18 to replace part of her aorta and aortic valve and had recovered from the 6 1/2-hour operation to a point where she was eating and even walking around her hospital room.
Hospital spokesman Ronald Wise said the rupture occurred in a portion of the aorta, the main heart artery, far from where the operation was performed.
"There was nothing to indicate this would happen," Wise said.
Since last week's surgery, fans had flooded the hospital with thousands of get-well cards, sent via telegram and even facsimile machine.
Hospital officials said it was the largest outpouring they had ever seen.
Miss Ball was a tough-talking woman who had used her stardom and show business savvy to become, with her then-husband, the late Desi Arnaz, head of one of Hollywood's major studios, Desilu.
Despite her business acumen, she remained the unquestioned queen of television comedy.
Almost humbly, she liked to say she owed her enormous success, not so much to talent, but to a magical combination of guts and good supporting players.
"I am not funny," Ball told an interviewer for Rolling Stone magazine in 1983.
I Love Lucy."
The 30-minute comedy starred Miss Ball and the Cuban-born Arnaz as the wacky Lucy Ricardo and her conga-playing husband Ricky.
The show was so popular during the 1950s that it literally stopped the nation every Monday night from 9 p.m. to 9:30 p.m.
Even a charge that Miss Ball was a Communist, made by the House Un-American Activities Committee in 1952, failed to dent her popularity.
A phenomenal 40 million viewers watched the antics each week as Lucy would always try to outwit Ricky.
Then there was the time she threw in two packages of yeast while baking homemade bread and ended up pinned against the wall of her Manhattan kitchen by a monster loaf.
In its Lucy cover story, Time magazine said: "This is the sort of cheerful rowdiness that has been rare. . . .
Tricked out as a ballerina or a Hindu maharani or a toothless hillbilly, she takes her assorted lumps and pratfalls with unflagging zest and good humor."
"There were two key qualities to her," the comedienne said.
God, that's universal.
Miss Ball's personal favorite episodes were filmed when she was pregnant with Desi Jr.
To the unabashed delight of a nation, it was the same night she had given birth in real life.
"I loved doing all those pregnant shows."
Astoundingly, or so it seems in retrospect, early reviews of Miss Ball's talents gave little hint of what was to come.
In fact, when she was a plucky 15-year-old looking for that first break on Broadway, Miss Ball was told by a drama teacher to give up.
Leaving school at 15, Miss Ball finally made it to New York and the John Murray Anderson dramatic school.
Diane and I was driving past the Belmont race track, and the names seemed to fit together")
Then in 1933, she headed to Hollywood.
Her curly hair bleached a Jean Harlow platinum, Miss Ball was hired to work for six weeks in the chorus of Samuel Goldwyn's "Roman Scandals."
Along the way, she dyed her hair a fiery red and was given the unofficial title of "Queen of the Bs."
All but three of their first 11 years of marriage were spent apart.
"We would end up talking on the phone -- no, fighting on the phone," Miss Ball told interviewers.
"You can't have a marriage over the phone.
It was a smash, and television executives reluctantly gave "I Love Lucy" a time slot.
"I wanted our characters to have problems," Miss Ball said of her concept for the show.
The episodes were filmed before a live audience by Academy Award-winning cinematographer Karl Freund, famous for his work on such films as "The Good Earth" and Garbo's "Camille.
" When the Arnazes negotiated to keep the films "to show our kids someday," few in the industry predicted what would happen.
I felt we could save the films for home movies. . . ."
"He (Arnaz) was like Jekyll and Hyde," she said years later. "
He drank and he gambled and he went around with other women.
The 1960 production floundered after only a few performances but during her stay in the East, she met stand-up comedian Gary Morton.
Among the shows Miss Ball tutored to success was her own "The Lucy Show," a series without Arnaz but with the same madcap clowning that kept her fans delighted.
In place of Desilu, Miss Ball, along with Morton, launched the much smaller Lucille Ball Productions Inc. and in 1968, began filming "Here's Lucy," a series featuring Desi Jr. and Lucie.
"My life started when my children were born," Miss Ball said at the time.
Although by now the world's best-known television star, as a movie star Miss Ball again received mixed reviews.
Times critic Charles Champlin wrote, "The shame about 'Mame' is that it managed to deny us a Lucy to love."
Danny Kaye was among those who gave testimonials during the two hours of reminiscing. "
" She was hospitalized for dehydration when it was over, but it was a critical and ratings success.
It was quickly pulled by the network because of abysmal ratings.
There was always the hilarious image of the redhead and "that Cuban bongo player," as Miss Ball affectionately called him.
