Setting aside years of animosity, the U.S. government joined with private humanitarian groups Friday to funnel medicine, tents, clothing, food and other relief materials to help earthquake-stricken Iran.
State Department officials said the government gave $300,000 worth of supplies to the American Red Cross for shipment to Iran -- including 1,000 hard hats, 1,000 pairs of leather gloves, 10,000 face masks, 2,940 wool blankets and about 500 tents.
The U.S. military, which often is used to ferry relief supplies to countries in need, stood ready to offer transport planes and logistics support for any U.S. aid requested by Iran.
However, a Pentagon official said it is unlikely that the State Department and the White House would authorize a military airlift of supplies.
"It's pretty clear that the Iranians don't want us, and there are so many alternatives, such as private charters, it really isn't necessary," the officials said.
The quake, which rocked the northern region of Iran early Thursday, left nearly 29,000 dead, by official count, and about 400,000 homeless.
Late Thursday, the Iranian Red Crescent appealed for help from the Red Cross and Red Crescent Society, a Geneva-based umbrella for international humanitarian organizations.
Iranian President Hashemi Rafsanjani, who toured the stricken region Friday, also appealed for international aid.
Some Jewish relief organizations found themselves in an uncomfortable position because of Iran's hostility toward the United States and Israel.
Confronted with reports that Iran would not welcome assistance from Israel, the groups were uncertain whether they should offer any assistance.
"We're a humanitarian organization . . . without regard to political considerations," Griffel said.
Amir Zamani, a spokesman for the Iranian mission at the United Nations, welcomed the "many offers from many organizations" that his office has received.
"Iran needs assistance, and such organizations are welcome to send it."
As an example, he said "no formalities" will be required for relief planes flying into Iran.
Dwain Schenck, a relief worker for AmeriCares Foundation, said the Connecticut-based relief group expects to send 80,000 pounds of medical supplies, two doctors, a nurse and about half a dozen relief workers to Iran today.
