Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev warned the nation Saturday night that the country's growing ethnic strife is endangering its unity as a state as well as threatening his program of political and economic reforms.
Appealing for calm and for the cool consideration of grievances after weeks of continuing unrest in scattered areas of the country, Gorbachev made clear the leadership's fear that the nation is heading into a political maelstrom that could tear the Soviet Union apart.
"The fate of perestroika and the unity of our state is at stake," he declared in a sober, 20-minute address broadcast on radio and television. "
With serious ethnic clashes in Soviet Central Asia over the past month, with troops needed to maintain the peace in the southern republics of Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia and with nationalism growing stronger in the Baltic republics of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, Gorbachev is struggling to hold the Soviet Union together as a state while he pushes broad reforms that he believes will resolve most of the grievances.
Even as he spoke, Soviet officials reported new violence in the south -- this time between Georgians and Azerbaijanis inside the Georgian republic but in an area with many Azerbaijanis.
Roving gangs, armed with hunting rifles, gasoline bombs and other weapons, had clashed in three towns south of the capital of Tbilisi last week, leaving one man dead and 22 people seriously wounded.
For Gorbachev, the spread of the unrest has forced the humiliating admission that the Soviet Union, a superpower in world terms, cannot ensure the domestic tranquility that is a first priority for any government -- nor can it protect its own minorities against pogroms.
The whole issue is believed to have been the subject of a high-level Communist Party conference here late last week, and Gorbachev's unusual television address underscores the threat posed by the conflicts.
"We are also reaping today the results of lawlessness in preceding decades -- the deportation of whole peoples from their lands and the burying in oblivion of the national interests of small ethnic groups," Gorbachev said, alluding to actions carried out decades ago by the dictator Josef Stalin.
Although these questions will be dealt with during a special meeting of the Communist Party's policy-making Central Committee in late July and then debated again by the Congress of People's Deputies, the country's new national assembly, Gorbachev apparently felt that he could not wait for those debates, and he set out his own broad guidelines for dealing with the crisis.
The refusal to recognize the basic principle of equality had led to attacks on minority groups in several parts of the country, Gorbachev said, alluding to the particularly vicious assaults on Mesketian Turks in Uzbekistan last month in which about 100 people died.
