President Bush embargoed all trade with Iraq and froze the nation's assets in the United States on Thursday while refusing to rule out the use of U.S. troops to rescue Kuwait from its Iraqi invaders.
The trade embargo bars imports of oil from Iraq, which account for 3% to 4% of total U.S. oil supplies, officials said.
The move also prohibits Iraq from buying U.S. grain and other foodstuffs, which represent the other chief element of trade between the two nations.
Iraq's "naked aggression" against Kuwait has created "an emergency in the Persian Gulf," Bush said in a speech to the Aspen Institute, a nonprofit organization that focuses on global issues.
Referring to Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, Bush declared: "We find his behavior intolerable."
The trade embargo represents the strongest international response so far to Iraq's massive invasion of its small and poorly defended neighbor, but it stopped short of the military intervention requested by desperate Kuwait officials.
But according to Bush Administration sources, the Pentagon stepped up air patrols in the Persian Gulf and began moving warships, equipment and supplies into the area in a signal to Iraq that the United States would act to halt further aggression.
"We expect our friends to stand by us in our time of need," Kuwait's ambassador to the United States, Sheik Saud al Nasir al Sabah, said at a Washington news conference.
However, Iraq's ambassador to Washington, Mohammed al Mashat, said Iraq had invaded Kuwait in response to a request from the nation's "interim free government."
In a related development, the State Department confirmed that invading Iraqi troops had rounded up six American oil field workers near the border of Kuwait.
In Ulan Bator, Mongolia, where Baker was on an Asian visit, a Baker spokeswoman said that the United States and the Soviet Union plan to issue a joint statement later today condemning the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait.
Baker will meet with Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze on a brief refueling stop in Moscow.
Bush flew to Colorado after meeting early in the morning with his National Security Council to discuss the Persian Gulf situation.
Bush spent the day discussing the Iraqi invasion with senior advisers and other heads of state, including the heads of Egypt, Yemen and Jordan, Arab leaders whom the President described as "friends of the United States."
Later Thursday, the White House said that Bush had spoken with King Fahd of Saudi Arabia for about 30 minutes.
Referring to Kuwait's request for U.S. military intervention, he said: "We don't stand a chance if we don't get aid from our friends."
