Although they are a continent apart, the cities of Charleston, S.C., and San Francisco now share a fateful page in the ledger of time.
They are the scenes of two of the century's costliest, back-to-back natural disasters: Hurricane Hugo and the Bay Area earthquake.
Unlike earthquakes, hurricanes can be tracked by planes and radar, their paths predicted with sufficient certainty for those in harm's way to secure property and to flee.
Still, at least 28 deaths in the Carolinas are blamed on Hugo, while at least 60 deaths have been attributed to the Bay Area earthquake.
Hugo, 500 miles across with winds topping 175 m.p.h., left virtually every street and every neighborhood littered with storm debris and 80% of the city's buildings with some degree of damage.
Five days after the storm, many city residents remained inconvenienced, most without electricity, many without safe drinking water.
Broken glass and other debris left the roadsides lined with cars stopped by flat tires.
It took almost three weeks for businesses that cater to tourists to get back on their feet in Charleston.
It's likely to take a lot longer for the tourists themselves to return in numbers that made it one of the city's biggest industries.
Citywide, Charleston had 68 buildings collapse, compared to 60 buildings destroyed just in San Francisco's Marina District.
In San Francisco much of the damage may still be undetected.
Structural damage to houses, in many instances, will become apparent over a long period of time.
Hugo left Charleston isolated from the world.
The hurricane knocked out all local television and radio stations, and local officials for almost two days depended on a Florida radio station to deliver vital information and warnings.
Millions were watching the pregame World Series program when the earthquake struck, and instantly word was out that there had been a disaster.
Greenberg, who has now watched the federal government respond to two of America's worst disasters, said he sees relatively few differences between how the Federal Emergency Management Agency worked in South Carolina and Northern California.
