Leonard Bernstein, the Renaissance man of music who excelled as pianist, composer, conductor and teacher and was, as well, the flamboyant ringmaster of his own nonstop circus, died Sunday in his Manhattan apartment.
Bernstein, known and beloved by the world as "Lenny," died at 6:15 p.m. in the presence of his son, Alexander, and physician, Kevin M. Cahill, who said the cause of death was complications of progressive lung failure.
Cahill said progressive emphysema complicated by a pleural tumor and a series of lung infections had left Bernstein too weak to continue working.
His last conducting appearance was at Tanglewood, Mass., on Aug. 19.
Exhibiting remarkable talent and expertise in four areas that most artists wish they possessed in merely one, Bernstein still might have remained an obscure musician without the unique theatrical flair that dominated his personal as well as professional life.
With it, he became a personality, well known even to people who never bought a ticket to a musical performance or watched a serious television show.
The dervish persona, including his upstart gymnastics on the podium, never lessened throughout his long life in the spotlight.
Describing the conductor in the same concert, Bernheimer referred to him as "the shrugging, jumping, sighing, soaring, gushing, crouching, rocking, rolling, bounding, bobbing, leaping, jiggling, stabbing, hunching, bumping, grinding and grunting maestro in excelsis."
Critics also were quick to agree that had his envied and often-criticized showmanship masked lazy, sloppy or inept musicianship, Bernstein could never have remained an internationally sought-after conductor for five decades.
He knew what he was doing, and the musicians he accompanied, wrote for, conducted, or lectured to and taught admired him as one of their own.
Louis Bernstein (so-named because his maternal grandmother insisted) was born Aug. 25, 1918, in Lawrence, Mass., to two Russian Jewish immigrants.
His mega musical talent emerged belatedly and almost by accident.
By age 12, he was studying at the New England Conservatory of Music and had determined, despite his father's objections, that music -- at that point playing the piano -- would be his career.
A fan and practitioner of his music, Bernstein met Copland in a typical it-could-only-happen-to-Lenny incident.
His performance captivated the man he had met in the balcony, who of course was Copland.
They became lifelong friends.
The maestro also talked with Bernstein privately in his dressing room after concerts, promising to keep in touch.
It was fall and conducting classes at Juilliard were full, so Bernstein went to Philadelphia for two years.
During the summers he studied under Koussevitzky, conductor of the Boston Symphony, at the new school Koussevitzky was starting at the orchestra's summer home, Tanglewood.
Bernstein later became Koussevitzky's assistant and returned to Tanglewood annually to conduct and teach.
On Nov. 14, less than three months after Bernstein got the job, guest conductor Bruno Walter fell ill and Rodzinsky was snowed in at his farm.
With no rehearsal, a hangover and three hours sleep, Bernstein was to conduct a complex program broadcast nationwide on CBS radio.
The New York Times chronicled the epic event on Page One and stated in an editorial: "Mr. Bernstein had to have something approaching genius to make full use of his opportunity. . . .
He had no time for one.
He was too much in demand around the world as the wunderkind guest conductor.
"It is impossible for me to make an exclusive choice among the various activities," Bernstein wrote in 1946.
His best and best-remembered work, "West Side Story," debuted in 1957.
"But I don't love it any less," he added, reveling in the adulation his adaptation of the Romeo and Juliet conflict had produced.
"It doesn't make it a stepchild or a foundling."
The television classics won Bernstein a coveted Peabody award.
Bernstein was able to apply his innate ability for commercializing his art that had made him wealthy to the struggling New York Philharmonic.
He introduced free concerts in the park and put the orchestra on television, widening its audience and tripling paid concert attendance.
If two rings of the Bernstein circus rested in popular and classical music, the third was anchored in his uproarious personal life.
I drink.
Criticized for "radical chic," his leftist political philosophy prompted him to host a storied fund-raising party for the Black Panthers in 1970.
Although Peyser made a strong case in her 1987 biography that Bernstein had many homosexual affairs (Bernstein promised his children never to read the book), there was no question that he adored his family.
On Sept. 9, 1951, he married Chilean actress Felicia Montealegre, and, despite a short separation and subsequent reconciliation in 1976, remained devoted to her and went into a severe depression when she died of lung cancer in 1978.
