Tuesday's earthquake, the strongest on the San Andreas fault since the San Francisco quake on April 18, 1906, came in a place that had been identified by scientists just last year as the most likely spot for a major jolt in Northern California within the next 30 years.
The epicenter of the temblor, eight miles east-northeast of the city of Santa Cruz in the Santa Cruz Mountains, was at virtually the same spot as earthquakes in the 5-magnitude range that occurred on June 27, 1988, and Aug. 8, 1989.
A 6.5-magnitude quake was centered there in 1865.
The U.S. Geological Survey, in a 1988 report on regions of high earthquake probability in California, said there was a 30% chance of another 6.5-magnitude earthquake in the immediate vicinity by the year 2018.
He said "foreshocks" would not be the proper term, since months had elapsed before the more powerful earthquake struck.
But he joined Caltech scientists in saying that aftershocks as strong as 5.9 magnitude should be expected, and that the pattern of aftershocks could last for months.
Only the nearby Hayward fault may harbor as great a danger of a catastrophic earthquake in the Bay Area.
But, as it was, Tuesday's quake was about four times stronger than the devastating Sylmar-San Fernando earthquake of 1971 and 10 times stronger than the 1987 Whittier quake.
Person said that, like most San Andreas earthquakes, this was most likely to be a strike-slip quake, with one side of the fault grinding horizontally past another.
But he said a final evaluation would have to await on-scene inspection teams that will be sent into the epicenter area today by the Geological Survey's Menlo Park office.
Jim Dewey, a research geophysicist at the National Earthquake Center, said preliminary evaluations indicated that the fracture was about 10 miles deep, and that the quake rupture extended about 30 miles south down the fault from the epicenter.
Person said that the area of strongest shaking was around Santa Cruz, although this evaluation too will have to await field evaluations, as will a final confirmation of the magnitude of the earthquake.
Scientists do not yet understand whether the quakes on the Calaveras fault may have been a precursor, or somehow added pressure, on the San Andreas.
In August, Geological Survey scientists had expressed concern at the step-up in 5-magnitude quakes south of the Bay Area.
He said he had decided to keep the assessment private because he feared that publicity about it would cause people to panic.
