John Major, the 47-year-old chancellor of the exchequer who rose out of one of London's toughest neighborhoods and the unemployment line, was selected Tuesday as Britain's next prime minister.
Major, whose father was once a circus trapeze artist, was elected leader of the Conservative Party to replace Margaret Thatcher, whose sudden resignation under pressure last week surprised the nation.
Thatcher formally presents her resignation today to Queen Elizabeth II, who will then ask Major to form a new government.
The Conservatives' choice of Major, a Thatcher protege, came after a battle pitting him against two other contenders for the party leadership, former Defense Secretary Michael Heseltine and Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd.
But as party members began preparing themselves for a Thursday runoff between Major and Heseltine, the runner-up, both Heseltine, with 131 votes, and Hurd, with 56, threw their support to Major.
He complimented his rivals for a campaign based on "substance, not personality."
President Bush, en route to Washington after a visit to Mexico, telephoned Major from aboard Air Force One to congratulate him.
In Washington, the State and Defense departments also welcomed the news.
Major is a high school dropout who made his name in banking before winning a seat in the House of Commons in 1979.
He is not expected to introduce any major new policies but will take a more sympathetic view toward Britain's role in the European Community and has promised to review the controversial community charge, the so-called poll tax introduced by Thatcher.
Cunningham pointed out that 187 members of Major's own party, a majority in the House of Commons, voted against him Tuesday.
With 185 votes in the three-way race, Major did not gain as many as the 202 votes Thatcher won Nov. 20, when Heseltine was her sole opponent.
That vote -- while she was in Paris attending the summit meeting of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe -- forced her into a runoff with Heseltine and ultimately cost her the party leadership.
Her closest advisers reported that her support in the House of Commons was eroding, friends said, so she decided to resign rather than risk the humiliation of a defeat at the hands of one of her own colleagues.
On Monday, Thatcher let it be known that she personally preferred Major to succeed her.
But Major was the clear-cut victor in the balloting, held from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tuesday in a House of Commons committee room.
After the results were announced, Heseltine declared that the election had been fought "without rancor and bitterness."
It was not immediately clear whether Hurd and Heseltine would join Major's Cabinet, though Major's aides indicated they would be offered roles in the government.
Conservative Party members of all hues were elated by the result and by the fact that the short campaign was conducted in the most gentlemanly fashion, with no blood on the floor.
The Labor Party, almost overnight, went from being the strong favorite in the next election to second place behind a Tory party led by Major.
Labor's Cunningham declared that the Conservatives' lead was "a temporary blip" and promised "to fight an election as soon as he (Major) names a date."
