Their common ground pretty much ended when the miles of asphalt to the finish line did.
By the time most people were starting their first cup of coffee Sunday morning, Benjamin Paredez Martinez of Ecatepec, Mexico, and Kathy Smith of Newport Beach were crowned winners in the San Diego Marathon at the Oceanside pier, efforts than earned them $2,000 apiece.
The runs set records on the new North County course, but the times, even helped by warm breezes and clear, 74-degree conditions, were hardly blistering.
Martinez, 29, finished in 2 hours 19 minutes 3 seconds, 36 seconds faster than Doug Kurtis of Northville, Mich.
Smith's 2:43:05 seemed days quicker than the 2:52:12 posted by Escondido's Mindy Ireland.
Rosas and a pack of as many as eight came out at a pace seven to 10 seconds quicker per mile.
After the 14-mile mark, the pack has already thinned to just Rosas, Danny Bustos, Doug Kurtis and Ernesto Gutierrez, who ran single file for a time.
Martinez and Martin Rodriguez Rivera held back, but Martinez soon heard a little voice that told him to move or be removed from contention.
The only recurring theme in Martinez' and Smith's backgrounds -- other than the 26.2 miles they ran -- was that they are novices at long-distance running, this was their first victory at this distance and that they are both teachers.
She was holding class with reporters long before Ireland, 39, was carried into a room for mandatory drug testing -- the United States Olympic Committee Drug Testing Program randomly selected this race to administer tests to the top finishers.
Having run with Ireland last year in the San Diego Marathon, Smith knew a little of Ireland's racing style.
She hung in pretty well with me."
Martinez said entered this event because he knew the field was weak and his chances were good.
But weak field or not, the 4,000-plus runners who participated in the event seemed to relish the experience, as all the problems the marathon has had to deal with faded as each runner crossed the finish line.
"You'd never know anything had happened that was at all an inconvenience."
DeAnna Sodoma of Escondido won her first marathon wheelchair race in 2:17:52; Saul Mendoza Hernandez of Mexico won the men's division in 1:57:50.
