With the old order of Bolshevik power and ideology in ruins, Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev demanded the resignation Friday of his entire government and Russian President Boris Yeltsin shut down Communist Party organizations throughout the vast republic.
Ministers appointed only Thursday by Gorbachev were fired and replaced Friday.
Yeltsin, the triumphant leader of the resistance against this week's military coup, has drastically tipped the balance of power here, showing himself to be at least the political equal, if not the master, of Gorbachev.
In a symbol of the new order, the Russian tricolor, the banner of the anti-coup resistance, flew over the gates of the Kremlin alongside the red Soviet flag for the first time since the rise of the Bolshevik state.
In a joint appearance with Gorbachev in the Russian parliament, broadcast live on Soviet television, Yeltsin made it clear that the Soviet president can maintain a semblance of authority only if he agrees to share power and intensify the march toward a democratic political system and a market economy.
Gorbachev, who has insisted the party is still capable of reform, stammered a bit and then said, "Boris Nikolayevich, Boris Nikolayevich . . ."
Flouting protocol, Yeltsin was the first to announce the appointments while speaking at a mass rally Friday morning outside KGB headquarters.
Former Interior Minister Vadim Bakatin will head the KGB, Gen. Yevgeny Shaposhnikov, the air force chief, becomes defense minister and former Russian Interior Minister Victor Barannikov will be the union's interior minister.
Although Bessmertnykh said he had refused to go along with the coup leaders, Gorbachev said he had information that his top diplomat had been "maneuvering, or at least did not take a firm stand."
In both Moscow and Leningrad, city officials ordered police to seal off Communist Party headquarters.
Across the country, Communist Party leaders who opposed the coup quit their party posts, and some who supported it, such as Latvian party leader Alfred Rubiks, were arrested.
The leader of the Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Alexei II, said the coup meant the end of communist ideology in the country.
The Russian deputies -- and Yeltsin especially -- were alternately sarcastic and aggressive.
Gennady Yanayev invoked that law in the coup while declaring Gorbachev physically incapacitated.
Pavlov was one of the eight officials in the committee that ousted Gorbachev from power, but he was reportedly taken ill on Sunday night when the coup began.
He has been under police guard in a hospital since Gorbachev regained power Wednesday.
