Mikhail Gorbachev and Boris Yeltsin launched a sweeping purge today that dealt a series of stunning blows to the Communist Party power structure, including the ouster of top officials, the sealing of party headquarters and the curtailing of party activities.
Yeltsin appeared today to be acting at least as an equal with Gorbachev, and the two clearly agreed on the replacement of old-guard officials by new reformers.
In fact, the two leaders reached an agreement that permits each man to assume the other's duties in an emergency, such as another coup attempt.
Gorbachev threw out his foreign minister, Alexander Bessmertnykh, and his acting defense minister, and named a new head of the KGB.
The Moscow City Council, meanwhile, ordered all Communist Party buildings in the capital sealed and all telephone service to party and KGB buildings cut.
Yeltsin, who had led the nationwide resistance to the coup, announced a ban on Communist Party activities in the Russian republic, the army, police units of the Interior Ministry and the KGB, which for decades helped enforce Communist rule.
It wasn't clear whether the Soviet president had intended to back Yeltsin's latest decrees, and he balked at proposals by Russian deputies to outlaw the Communist Party, saying it would divide the nation.
They wanted to turn us into meat.
The meeting of Gorbachev and Yeltsin was the first since the coup collapsed to discuss the takeover and to deal with officials who backed the putsch.
Gorbachev, however, warned in his speech against "any kind of anti-Communist hysteria."
Yeltsin led the opposition to the coup from the parliament building, where supporters rallied to build barricades and form a human shield against expected attacks.
Publication suspended
The actions by Yeltsin, who quit the party last summer, came amid a growing wave of anger at the Communist Party, six of whose top party officials were arrested for instigating the coup.
He was not seen publicly after the coup began, and he didn't re-emerge until the coup leadership began to collapse.
