PEOPLE in this picture-postcard town of Victorian houses and clean streets don't care what Jay Leno or the polls or the Democrats or disgruntled Republicans have been saying about Dan Quayle.
Despite the fact that President Bush's health problems have made the vice president a national preoccupation, to people here he's just Danny Quayle from Polk Street -- a really nice guy from a really nice family that runs the local newspaper.
He is the most important person ever to come out of this town, and even as the world considers his fitness for the presidency, Huntington is celebrating his life in what is ambitiously being billed as the Premiere Dan Quayle Memorabilia Exhibit.
To those who say Quayle does not merit his own exhibition, Quayle devotees say with a mixture of defiance and dignity that he is, after all, the vice president of the United States.
"We're preserving history," says David Schenkel, the exhibition coordinator.
The 1972 Indianapolis 500 queen produced a picture of Quayle, then an aide to Indiana Gov. Edgar Whitcomb, accompanying her to the race.
"He's not the fool that the talk show hosts think he is," says Dottie Watson, president of the Republican Women of Huntington County.
If he would slow down, talk an octave lower and think about what he's saying, I don't think people would take him the way they do," said Jean Anne Drabenstot, the owner of Nick's Kitchen, Quayle's favorite restaurant.
The free exhibition has turned a gray room in the town's public library into a virtual Dan Quayle museum.
The display patches together pieces of a life that until the last decade was strikingly ordinary.
There is Dan Quayle with his Vacation Bible School class, Dan Quayle with the high school golf team, Dan Quayle at 5 or 6 years of age with Sharon McEachern when they were named king and queen of the swim festival at the Fort Wayne Country Club.
For example, his father, James, signed the report cards when Dan brought home poor grades, and his mother signed when he brought home good ones.
And there are letters and poems that he wrote, which only go to show that one does not have to be a Yeats to make it in politics.
The exhibit also includes the 1972 newspaper announcement of Dan and Marilyn Quayle's wedding, the wooden "Quayle &amp
Quayle" shingle the couple hung when they opened their law practice here, and assorted campaign souvenirs, including the official air sickness bag from the 1988 Republican National Convention.
