Insurers face the prospect of paying out billions of dollars for damages caused by this week's California earthquake.
Getting a grip on the extent of the damages is proving a far more difficult task than what insurers faced after Hurricane Hugo ripped through the Caribbean and the Carolinas last month.
But investors are betting that the financial and psychological impact of the earthquake, coming so soon after the hurricane, will help stem more than two years of intense price-cutting wars among business insurers.
Since commercial air travel is interrupted, Aetna, based in Hartford, Conn., chartered three planes to fly claims adjusters into Sacramento and then planned for them to drive to the Bay area.
State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co., the largest home and auto insurer in California, believes the losses from the earthquake could be somewhat less than the $475 million in damages it expects to pay out for claims resulting from Hurricane Hugo.
Earthquake insurance is sold as a separate policy or a specific endorsement "rider" on a homeowner's policy in California, because of the area's vulnerability to earthquakes.
Allstate Insurance Co., a unit of Sears, Roebuck &amp; Co., said about 23% of its personal property policyholders -- about 28% in the San Franciso area -- also have earthquake coverage.
Officials from the American Insurance Association's property-claim service division, which coordinates the efforts of the claims adjusters in an area after a natural disaster, will be flying to San Francisco today.
Highways, such as the section of Interstate 880 that collapsed in Oakland, generally don't have insurance coverage.
That coverage is provided by a syndicate of insurance companies including Fireman's Fund Corp., based in Novato, Calif., and Cigna Corp., based in Philadelphia.
Among the insurance stocks, big gainers included American International Group, up $3.25 to $102.625; General Re Corp., up $2.75 to $86.50; Aetna, up $2.375 to $59.50; and Marsh &amp; McLennan Inc., up $3.125 to $75.875.
The catastrophe losses sustained by insurers this year will probably be the worst on an inflation-adjusted basis since 1906 -- when another earthquake sparked the Great San Francisco Fire.
