On the day of the Big Event, Ladbroke, the large British betting agency, posted the final odds.
Brian Moore was the favorite at 7-4, followed by Peter Ackroyd (5-2), Iris Murdoch (3-1) and Chinua Achebe (9-2).
The two dark horses, Nina Bawden and Penelope Lively, were each tipped at 7-1.
All of those people published new works of fiction here in Britain during the past 12 months.
And for the last few weeks, literary punters throughout the British Isles have been placing bets on which of those writers would win the Booker Prize, the best-known, best-liked and, almost incidentally, most prestigious fiction award in the land.
In recent weeks the Booker contenders have received almost as much press coverage as the Charles and Di rift.
The betting is done largely by literary insiders, says Graham Sharpe, who sets the Booker odds at William Hill, Britain's other big betting agency.
"They read the books, hear the gossip and want to pull off a little coup for themselves," he says.
Last year's winner, "The Old Devils" by Kingsley Amis, was a 5-2 favorite, but this year, anyone who chose the victor made some dough.
"I'm not a betting woman, and I have slight reservations about books becoming a spectator sport," she said in soft Oxbridge tones. "
America has the Pulitzer Prize for fiction and the National Book Awards, but in terms of excitement, hoopla and man-on-the-street interest, there's nothing akin to the 15,000-pound ($26,000) Booker Prize.
Britons wryly compare the Booker to the Academy Awards, and though there's just one prize and no envelope, similarities exist.
Yet interest was sufficient for Andre Deutsch, "Moon Tiger's" British publisher, to order up an additional 20,000 copies almost the minute Mrs. Lively -- and the nation -- heard the news.
Short-listed authors are just a few paces behind, sharing the best-seller list with Dick Francis and Scott Turow.
Headlines were modest back in 1969 when P.H. Newby won the first ever Booker Prize for "Something to Answer For."
