Say what you want about Albert Goldman, the author of the new biography, "The Lives of John Lennon" (Morrow, $22.95), but you've got to hand it to him: This guy is one ambitious sleazemonger.
Most best-selling pop biographers play it safe: They choose a celeb of respectable, not to say pristine, reputation, and then they proceed to blacken it, preferably by recounting vaguely sourced tales of sexual excess, chemical dependency, personal unkindness, raw business dealings, even, in some cases, dyslexia.
The resulting portrait of a dissipated ogre who can't spell is duly presented in hardback form to the public, which in turn is so shocked and disgusted that it forces itself to buy the biography by the millions.
Now Mr. Presley was, if you'll forgive the expression, a fat target for a writer of Mr. Goldman's methods.
the "King of Rock 'n' Roll" was in truth more a creature of the old show biz, a star whose wholesome image, carefully created by P.R. wizards, was ripe for debunking.
For apart from his puerile politics, Mr. Lennon's favorite topic in the thousands of interviews he gave was his own squalid history: His voracious drug use, his perfidy to employees, his unquenchable sexual promiscuity and so on.
The leitmotif of Mr. Lennon's confessions was that his worst days were behind him, and that with Yoko Ono he had at last learned to prize the virtues of quietude and domesticity.
Hence this 718-page stew of unrelieved sordidness, percolating with the "scoops" that have by now been widely publicized in People magazine, "West 57th" and other scholarly venues: that Mr. Lennon had a thing for young boys; that his marriage to Ms. Ono was pocked by the same faithlessness and rancor that characterized his first marriage; that he had a sweet tooth that just wouldn't quit.
Remarkably, then, the sleazemonger's art has triumphed: Mr. Goldman's John Lennon is even worse than John Lennon's John Lennon.
There is his knowing, hipper-than-thou approach -- toward drugs, sex, music -- that gives him license to second-guess Mr. Lennon's every move.
