The 1984 Summer Olympic Games weren't even over when advertisers began clamoring for pixie gymnast Mary Lou Retton.
She went on to grin relentlessly through some $5 million worth of commercial endorsements -- surely an Olympic record in itself.
But when the 1988 Summer Games ended Sunday night, so, too, did the chance for American athletes to follow in her footsteps.
Without heroes, you don't have anyone that anyone wants to emulate."
Who could forget diver Greg Louganis smacking his head on the springboard, then coming back to win two gold medals?
But even these two, along with Jackie Joyner-Kersee, who won the women's heptathalon and the long jump, may find it more difficult than in previous years to turn gold medals into gold in the bank.
The fact is, say many marketers, Olympic gold has lost much of its commercial luster.
"It used to be kind of a knee-jerk reaction to do an ad campaign around an Olympic athlete.
Earlier this year, sports marketers estimated that a gold medal won during the Summer Games could earn a personable athlete more than $1 million in endorsements.
Now, marketers say, these medalists will be lucky to pull in $100,000 to $500,000 a year.
The 1988 Games, by contrast, were broadcast from halfway around the world, and the Soviets trounced the Americans, 55 gold medals to 36.
Marketers say it was so bland and skipped so frequently from one event to another that there was little chance for excitement to build.
Recent changes in Olympic rules, meanwhile, have led to a glut of Olympians in search of endorsement deals.
"Every year, more and more Olympic people are out there wanting to do commercials -- basically, everybody is available," says Daisy Sinclair, a vice president with ad agency Ogilvy Group Inc.
And after years of paying big bucks to Olympic stars only to see them fade into obscurity, companies have finally gotten the hint that Olympian fame is of the most fleeting variety.
"If you think your phone will ring off the hook if (you win) a gold medal, it isn't going to happen anymore," says Stephen Disson, senior vice president of marketing for ProServ Inc., a Washington sports-marketing firm.
And don't look for any of 1988's winners to start showing up on Wheaties boxes, either.
A spokeswoman says that none of this year's crop meet all three criteria.
So far, Ms. Joyner-Kersee has had the most visible endorsements.
Advertisers say with her good looks and fashion flare, she is attracting more interest than any of the other medal winners.
Another Olympian with endorsement potential is swimmer Matt Biondi, who won five gold medals.
Mr. Biondi has already signed a swim-wear contract with Arena USA Inc., and Parkes Brittain, his agent at Advantage International Inc., says his client "will definitely be in a high-income ring, the highest you can name."
And a few marketing executives say that even his second sweep of the diving events may not up his potential.
He will say, however, that his client has "done just fine.
ESTIMATED 1987 EARNINGS: $8 million
ATHLETE: Jack Nicklaus (Golf)
ATHLETE: Boris Becker (Tennis)
NATIONAL ENDORSEMENTS: Reebok, Spalding, Epson Computers, Hertz, Qantas Airlines, Daikyo Group, Swan Lager &amp; Castlemaine, Akubia Hats
ESTIMATED 1987 EARNINGS: $4 million
