A crowd the size of a small city will squeeze past a starting line here March 1 to run 26 miles, 385 yards.
Makers of cars, soda pop, sportswear, copiers, computers -- even a hospital -- have tagged their names to the Los Angeles Marathon.
A study by Mercedes-Benz found that 42% of family heads making $40,000 a year or more jog regularly.
Of potential buyers showing up at Mercedes dealers, 47% are joggers.
With those numbers in mind, the car maker has become a sponsor of three marathons -- in New York, Boston and Los Angeles -- as well as other running races.
Marathons have had corporate backing for some time.
But Los Angeles is ahead of the pack in making distance running a commercial spectacle.
"I took air and made an event," says William Burke, the founder and president of Los Angeles Marathon Inc.
Last year, its first time out, the Los Angeles race attracted nearly 11,000 runners -- four times the number forecast and enough to make it the third -- largest race in the U.S.
The event also pulled in about $4 million in cash and services from its sponsors, leaving the organizers with $370,000 in red ink.
This year, Mr. Burke and his partner, Marie Patrick, expect to gross about $5 million in cash and services and to break even.
For the cost of a 30-second ad on the Super Bowl, a company can sponsor a marathon and "take over a city," says Lesa Ukman, editor of Special Events Reports, a Chicago-based newsletter.
The New York Road Runners Club, organizer of the race, stopped promoting the event some years ago because it had all the runners it wanted.
"We tell people that if they're looking for a new way to crack the Los Angeles market, this is it," says Mr. Burke.
"They have let us do whatever we want," says Ms. Cialone.
After competitive bidding, it awarded an eight-year contract to Los Angeles Marathon Inc. to put on the race.
The race sponsors and city officials are trading freely on the good will generated by Los Angeles's role as host of the 1984 Olympics.
This year's race may challenge New York and London as the largest marathon ever run.
Mr. Lebow, organizer of the New York event, says next year's Los Angeles Marathon will surpass that number.
Orthopaedic Hospital, a not-for-profit institution whose sponsorship is part of a publicity campaign, provides emergency care stations along the marathon route.
