An experiment with more than 1,700 high blood pressure patients showed that a blood and urine test can pinpoint those patients most likely to have a heart attack.
The experiment suggests that doctors could test their patients with mild to moderate high blood pressure to determine how intensively they should be treated to prevent heart attacks, researchers said.
The experiment also hinted that the blood and urine test, which measures the activity of a blood protein called renin, might suggest a new "risk factor" for heart attacks.
About half of the 1.5 million Americans who suffer a heart attack each year don't have the known risk factors for heart disease, such as high cholesterol levels, cigarette smoking, obesity and high blood pressure.
The blood and urine test is already being done in many commercial laboratories but for medical conditions other than heart attack risk, said John H. Laragh of the Cardiovascular Center at Cornell University and New York Hospital.
"In our hands, it cost about $40 and in other labs it may cost the patient $40 to $80," he said.
The Cornell cardiologist has argued that in many people with high blood pressure the activity of the renin in the blood is much higher than is warranted by the amount of salt in the blood.
In the experiment, blood and urine samples were obtained at New York City offices and factories from 1,717 workers found to have mild to moderate high blood pressure.
The patients' high blood pressure was initially discovered in a screening program carried out by Michael H. Alderman and his colleagues at Albert Einstein College of Medicine, who operate a work-site blood pressure control program in cooperation with local unions.
The results, published in this week's New England Journal of Medicine, lend strong support to Dr. Laragh's theory.
The incidence in the high renin patients was more than double the incidence in those with a normal renin profile -- 5.3 heart attacks per 1,000 person-years -- and more than triple that of the patients with a low renin profile, 3.3 per 1,000 person-years, Drs.
"But the real dynamite is in the patients who didn't have any of the usual risk factors," Dr. Laragh said in an interview.
In an accompanying editorial, Victor J. Dzau of Stanford University medical school said the study shows that the renin profile test is "potentially useful" in identifying high blood pressure patients who are at risk of a heart attack.
A big-selling class of high blood pressure drugs, including Bristol-Myers Squibb Corp.'s Capoten and Merck &amp; Co.'s Vasotec, are known as ACE inhibitors because they work by stopping renin in the blood from being converted to a second chemical called angiotensin.
