EAST DENNIS, Mass. --
It's 5:30 a.m., an icy rain is falling from an indigo sky, and there's a stiff northeaster.
This Cape Cod country road is deserted, but for the sweaty silhouette of John Kelley.
Mr. Kelley is in training for the Boston Marathon -- his 60th Boston Marathon.
And even at the age of 83, he probably will finish ahead of a large number of the 13,000 runners expected to compete -- officially or unofficially -- on April 15.
Bill Rodgers, a four-time Boston Marathon winner who plans to run again this year, marvels at Mr. Kelley: "
Even the thought of running a course of 26 miles and 385 yards leaves some of Mr. Kelley's rivals of yesteryear gasping. "
Aghast is more like it," says Leslie Pawson, 86, a three-time Boston champion who ran against Mr. Kelley half a century ago.
"My doctor says: `No running, whatsoever.'
I can't even remember when I ran my last marathon."
A two-time winner in Boston (1935 and 1945) and runner-up seven times, Mr. Kelley is to be the oldest competitor in the race this year -- as he has been for 15 years.
Mr. Kelley is such an institution that Hopkinton, Mass., where the race begins, has made him an honorary citizen.
Two state troopers will run alongside the 5-foot-6, 130-pound Mr. Kelley into Boston so he won't be trampled by "groupies," as he calls them, clamoring to shake his hand.
Recalls Suni Tomomitsu, one of the runners: "At first we thought, `Oh, wow, he's like Mafia man.'
Starting at dawn (six hours before the official noon start), Mr. Foley would eventually saunter across the finish line in the moonlight.
When John Kelley first toed the line in 1928, George Bush wasn't yet in kindergarten, Joe DiMaggio was an unknown and Nike was the winged goddess of victory, not a running shoe.
Today, of course, the Boston Marathon is a big deal, covered by TV from start to finish and offering $402,000 altogether in prize money.
Each year, he visits the Cooper Clinic at the Aerobics Center in Dallas for a battery of endurance tests. "
A's," Mr. Kelley reports of his checkup four months ago.
On the stress test the clinic gives, Mr. Kelley holds the endurance record for his age group.
His only purpose was to relax and have some fun. "
Then, in 1933, he finished 37th in a field of about 200 runners.
Mr. Kelley well knows the jagged course from Hopkinton to downtown Boston:
An Exxon station in Wellesley marks the halfway point.
A steep descent into Newton Lower Falls can jar a tired runner's bones.
Then, at the end of a long column of oak and maple trees, is Heartbreak Hill, his nemesis.
He's a strange man," says Laura Kelley, in awe of her husband's vigor.
